Choc-a-block trifle - added by Daniel van der Meer
Serves 6 people

INGREDIENTS:
- 4 good quality chocolate brownies  (ideally 85g each)
- 1/4 cup (60ml) of Kahlua (or any other coffee liqueur)
- 275g of roughly-chopped dark chocolate
- 3 egg yolks
- 1 1/2 tbs of casters sugar
- 1 tsp of cornflour
- 600ml of thickened cream
- 150g of roughly-chopped white chocolate
- 1/4 cup (30g) of toasted chopped walnuts
- Dark chocolate curls

METHOD:
1 - Break up brownies into small pieces and place them in the bottom of a 1.5 litre dish,
or 6 x cup (250ml) serving glasses. Drizzle over the Kahlua, then set aside.

2 - Place dark chocolate into a heatproof bowl aset over a saucepan of gently-simmering
water (don't let the bowl touch the water). Allow to melt, then stir very gently until
smooth. Remove from heat and add 225ml of boiling water. 1 tablespoon at a time, stirring
to make a sauce (don't add water more quickly or the chocolate will 'seize' and become
grainy). Pour sauce over the brownies, then cover and chill for 2 hours.

3 - Meanwhile, beat the egg yolks, sugar and cornflour together in a bowl with electric
beaters until thick and pale.

4 - Heat 300ml of the cream in a saucepan over medium heat until just below boiling point.
Pour the hot cream mixture over the egg mixture, stirring to combine. Transfer to a clean
saucepan and place over low heat. Stir for 2 to 3 minutes until a thick custard forms.

5 - Place two-thirds (100g) of the white chocolate into a heatproof bowl. Pour the custard
into the bowl, stirring until the chocolate is melted and the mixture is well combined.
Cool completely, then pour over the chocolate brownie base. Chill for 2 hours.

6 - Place the remaining 50g of white chocolate in a food processor with the walnuts and
pulse until fine. Whip the remaining cream to soft peaks, stir in the walnut mixture,
then spread over the trifle. Chill for at least 2 hours until set, then serve decorated
with chocolate curls, if desired.

RATINGS:


COMMENTS: